docs: add terminator documentation (#3676)
kcp-dev/kcp: docs/content/concepts/workspaces/workspace-termination.md

# Workspace Termination

> Workspace termination in kcp involves setting up clean-up logic when a Workspace is marked for deletion. This process is managed through `terminators`, which are enabled via `WorkspaceType` objects. In kcp, Terminators are the counterpart to [initializers](workspace-initialization.md). This document covers how to configure terminatorss, the necessary RBAC permissions, URL schemes, and the reasons for using terminatorss.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Workspace termination in kcp involves setting up optional cleanup logic when a Workspace is marked for deletion. This process is managed through `terminators`, which are enabled via `WorkspaceType` objects. In kcp, Terminators are the counterpart to [initializers](workspace-initialization.md). This document covers how to configure terminators, the necessary RBAC permissions, URL schemes, and the reasons for using terminators.
```

## Terminators

Terminators are used to customize the clean-up of workspaces and required resources. Terminators are defined in WorkspaceType objects and will be propagated to Workspaces and LogicalClusters. By doing this, users can create controllers processing LogicalClusters and running custom clean-up logic. Afterwards the controller will remove its corresponding terminator. Once all terminators are removed, a LogicalCluster will be deleted. After a LogicalCluster is deleted, its workspace is also ready for deletion.

> Terminators are meant to be used specifically to customize deletion logic of LogicalClusters. For other resources inside your workspace, you can use traditional Kubernetes finalizers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Terminators are meant to be used specifically to customize deletion logic of logical clusters. For resources inside your workspace, you can use traditional Kubernetes finalizers.
```

### The `terminating` Virtual Workspace

As a service provider, you can use the `terminatingworkspaces` virtual workspace to manage workspace resources in the terminating phase. This virtual workspace allows you to fetch `LogicalCluster` objects which have a DeletionTimeStamp and request termination by a specific controller.

You can retrieve the url for the TerminatingVirtualWorkspace directly from the `.status.virtualWorkspaces` field of the corresponding WorkspaceType. Returning to our previous example using a custom WorkspaceType called "example", you will receive the following output:

```sh
$ kubectl get workspacetype example -o yaml
...
status:
  virtualWorkspaces:
  - url: https://<shard-url>/services/terminatingworkspaces/root:example
```

You can use this url to construct a kubeconfig for your controller. To do so, use the url directly as the `cluster.server` in your kubeconfig and provide the subject with sufficient permissions (see [Enforcing Permissions for Terminators](#enforcing-permissions-for-terminators))

### Practical Tips

When writing a custom terminator controller, the following needs to be taken into account:

> * We strongly recommend to use the [multicluster-runtime](github.com/kcp-dev/multicluster-runtime) to build your controller in order to properly handle which LogicalCluster originates from which workspace

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* We strongly recommend to use [multicluster-runtime](github.com/kcp-dev/multicluster-runtime) to build your controller in order to properly handle which `LogicalCluster` originates from which workspace
```
